In the last video we started to discuss some architecture inside of application and we eventually settled
on saying that rather than having a block of code that alternates responsibility of just about every
line we're going to instead try to create one solid block that is 100 per cent concerned around the
timer and then that block of code will eventually emit some events or call a callback or otherwise tell
the outside world that something important just occurred.
So in this video we're going to start to focus on how we're going to actually implement this thing.
How are we going to write out some code that actually does what you see right here.
Well to implement this we're going to try to use a javascript class.
We do not have to use a class to implement something like this but I think that we're going to write
out the code and you're going to agree with me that using a class for this timer is a really good use
case.
So we're going to get a good idea of how to use a class around DOM elements and how to actually do it
effectively.
So I sat down and thought up of a couple of different ways to design this Timer class.
I'm going to share with you one way that seems kind of good to me.
So this is the way that we're going to implement our timer so we're going to make a class called timer
and this class is 100 percent concerned with these elements right here the numbers the play button and
the pause button class timer is not going to know anything about that animated border around the timer.
Instead class timer just knows about those three things right inside the border so on class timer we're
going to have a couple of different methods these different methods are going to be invoked automatically
whenever a user interacts with the timer elements.
So like the numbers that and the two buttons.
So whenever a user clicks on the play button we're going to call these start method.
And so as you'd guess calling the start method is going to start up some internal timer or something
like that whenever user clicks on the pause button.
We're going to run the pause method remember that in order to change the timer right here a user can
click on that thing and whenever they do it's going to turn into a text input.
And so we're going to say that whenever user changes that text right there are changes the duration
the timer we will call a method called on duration change.
That's a sign that hey the user just changed the duration of the timer.
And then finally we might also have a method on here called something like tick and tick is essentially
going to do what we said these steps were right here.
So essentially every single second or so or like half a second or something we're going to need to run
some code to update these State of the timer.
So like change the actual number on there and all that kind of good stuff.
And so that will be done inside of a tick method so tick is going to be called repeatedly over time
as long as the timer is counting down.
So this is the general idea we're gonna have a class and certain things we click on or interact with
are going to invoke different methods.
Now of course at some point in time we're going to have to make sure that we set up some event listeners
and say OK whenever we click on that play button right there we want to run the start method.
So to set up these event listeners we're going to say that our class timer is going to have a constructor
function.
Remember what a constructor function is.
It's a very special function that gets called immediately whenever we create a new instance of a class
so we're going to say that whenever we create a class timer or an instance of timer we're going to pass
in a reference to some dumb element that's going to serve as that little text input right there as the
second argument will pass in some DOM element that will serve as the start button.
And finally it will pass in a third argument that's going to represent the pause button as well and
when I say duration input start button and pause button right there.
All I'm saying is we're going to write a query selector.
We're going to find the text and put the two play buttons and we're gonna pass those into the constructor
so that our class essentially has a handle into the Dom and whenever it needs to reach into the Dom
and do something it will have these variables close at hand OK.
Now once again I just want to mention that if this stuff seems all that confusing right now that is
totally fine.
This is really your first taste of seeing how to effectively use a class around DOM elements.
So the first time you see this it always looks a bit crazy it always looks challenging but I guarantee
you as soon as we start to write some code out you're going to get a really good idea of what is going
on.
OK.
So let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and start to implement class timer.